---
id: 100
title: Introduction
---

# Introduction
[Panda](https://panda-lang.org/) is a clear and stylish programming language for JVM based on top of the Panda Framework, focusing on safety, simplicity and extensibility. 

**Note:** `At this moment Panda is at an early stage of development and it is not recommended to use it in any kind of software that requires stability.`

## Who Panda is For
The purpose of the Panda is to reduce boilerplate code written in Java and improve the safety of various aspects of Java language using modern solutions.
It is also a default implementation of Panda Framework and presentation of some of its possibilities. Let's see who may be interested.

### ‣ Beginners
The language and ecosystem is simple and friendly for people who just stared their journey with software development. 
Tools like [REPL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Read%E2%80%93eval%E2%80%93print_loop) or implementation like [Light](https://github.com/panda-lang/light) should make this path easier.

### ‣ Open Source Developers
[Open Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_software) is most of all a community that work together to reach the same goal. Be one of the first people who may create awesome libraries or contribute to the existing projects related with Panda.

### ‣ Developers
Enhance your project by scripts written in Panda or create your own language on top of the Panda Framework. Implement in a few steps language that is suited to your case instead of trying to force existing solutions to your needs.

## When We Discourage
As always, there is no perfect technology and here is a list of disadvantages that should be considered against using projects based on Panda Framework

* Handling huge amount of primitive-based data
* Heavy math operations *(it's also related to the first point)*

Panda does not support primitive types, each operation on this kind of data causes [autoboxing](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/autoboxing.html). In a standard code it does not really matter, but in case of any listed situation it may be a bottleneck.